.TH ROOMER 1 "August 2025" "roomer" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
roomer \- zoomer application for linux
.SH SYNOPSIS
Usage:
.PP
.nf
  grim - | ./roomer [options]                        Boomer Mode
  ./roomer [options] < image.[png|jpg|webp|bmp]      Image Viewer Mode
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show this message and exit.
.TP
.B -v, --version
Show version and exit.
.TP
.B -sd <path>, --screenshot-dir <path>
Folder to save screenshots in.
.TP
.B -ms <float>, --monitor-scaling <float>
Compositor monitor scaling (default 1).
.TP
.B -bg <rgba hex>, --background <rgba hex>
Background color.
.PP
All defaults can be changed, if there is a need for adding more options, please open an issue.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Because this is a native wayland window, positioning has to be done through the window manager.
In the case of Hyprland, this can be done with the following rules:
.PP
.nf
windowrule = float,     title:^roomer$
windowrule = monitor 1, title:^roomer$
windowrule = move 0 0,  title:^roomer$
windowrule = noanim,    title:^roomer$
.fi
.PP
You need to set monitor to your leftmost monitor, hyprctl monitors shows all monitors and their IDs.
When opening a file, the window title will be "roomer - image viewer".
.PP
In case you are using monitor scaling, pass the same value to the --monitor-scaling option:
.PP
.nf
monitor=DP-1, 3840x2160@144, 0x0, 1.666667  =>  --monitor-scaling 1.666667
.fi
.SH KEYBINDINGS
.TS
tab(|) allbox;
c c
c c.
Input|Action
ESC or q|Quit
0|Reset
Left Mouse Button Drag|Pan
Mouse Wheel|Zoom In/Out
f|Toggle Flashlight
CTRL + Mouse Wheel|Change Flashlight Radius
s|Take a Screenshot to Clipboard (needs wl-copy)
CTRL + s|Take a Screenshot to File (to $XDG_PICTURE_DIR / $HOME)
Right Mouse Button Drag|Draw
.TE
.SH INSTALLATION
roomer is available on the AUR: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/roomer-git/
.PP
You can install it using your AUR helper of choice, for example:
.PP
.nf
yay -S roomer-git
.fi
.PP
Alternatively, you can build it from source:
.PP
.nf
git clone https://github.com/lsck0/roomer.git
cd roomer
make build
.fi
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.IP \[bu] 2
glfw
.IP \[bu] 2
grim (for taking the screenshot, any other screenshot tool that can output to stdout works)
.IP \[bu] 2
wl-copy (optional, for screenshots to clipboard)
.SH DEVELOPMENT
.PP
.nf
make
.fi
.SH REFERENCES
https://github.com/tsoding/boomer
.SH UPSTREAM
https://github.com/lsck0/roomer
.SH LICENSE
MIT
